### Notes from telcon on 10th October 2017

Attending:
- Neil Chue Hong
- Morane Gruenpeter
- Alice Allen
- Jeffrey Spies
- August Muench
- cmg45
- David Kennedy
- Alejandra Gonzalez-Beltran
- Jonathan Sick
- LHKellogg
- Shelley Stall
- Helge Holzmann
- Lars Holm Nielsen 
- Stephan Druskat
- Abigail Cabunoc Mayes
- Catherine Jones
- Lorraine Hwang
- Melissa Harrison
- Ilian Todorov
- Tom Robitaille
- Wolfram Sperber 
- Wolfgang Dalitz
- Sweitze Roffel
- Jessica Hausman
- Martin Hammiztsch
- Phone number +31-204853053


### 1) Feedback on the revised DataCite Metadata Schema for Software

Next update of Datacite Metadata schema (v4.1) is coming out soon with better support for software.

Slightly awkward timing for this call: too late for major changes but too early to be able to solicit comments on a public draft.

Public draft expected to be available before FORCE2017. We will collect feedback on the draft via GitHub issues in the 
FORCE11 Software Citation Implementation Working Group GitHub repository (one per topic) by the end of November. 
Martin Fenner will summarise these and feed back to the DataCite Metadata committee.

The revised schema is alread in the DatCite test system: https://schema.test.datacite.org/meta/kernel-4.1/

Zenodo will be testing an implementation of the revised schema.
Elsevier are interested in evaluating schema once published.

Questions:

Morane - when will there be a mapping with CodeMeta?
90% done because not much changed - could do this at the hackathon.

Ilian - will DataCite be providing specific example for software citation? Yes, this will 

### 2) Noting of relevant events and sessions at FORCE2017

swMath - software citation landing pages session. Most citations limited to name or publication, not the software itself. Built landing pages from data in publications containing information about the content.

Helge - How are fields in datacite schema filled?
swMath approach is extracting information from existing publications.

Morane - Software Heritage use CodeMeta crosswalk table to map from other schema used by different sites to DataCite schema

Stephan - created a minimal, extensible format for software citations for the case where you are "manually" creating a citation for their software.

Lars - CodeMeta useful to generate CITATION files from GitHub metadata, puts it in a sensible place

Stephan Janosch is presenting results on survey of what people are doing in Germany

Hackathon is on Thursday. Starts with a one hour session with this working group. Have the rest of the day to work on different topics. Hackathon is more generally on citation.


3) Discussion and generation of ideas for FORCE2017 Citation Hackathon – Martin Fenner and Neil Chue Hong to lead

Martin would like to turn metadata for DOIs to JATS XML.

Neil will circulate remote participation instructions week before.


Hack ideas:
- virtualisation - build docker containers where you can share whole package. Beyond citation is accessibility.

- CodeMeta - checking it works with DataCite, new crosswalks
- showing how you can use CodeMeta in different situations

- tooling to make it easier to generate and using citations
- JSON based tools. 

### Discussion of regular timeslot for monthly group calls

Most on call felt this time or one hour later worked. Neil will solicit further feedback via the mailing list.
