## Notes from Telcon on 12 January 2021

Previous Calls:
 - [June 2, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170602-Notes.md)
 - [June 6, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170606-Notes.md)
 - [October 10, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20171010-Notes.md)
 - [February 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180206-Notes.md)
 - [March 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180306-Notes.md)
 - [April 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180403-Notes.md)
 - [May 8, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180508-Notes.md)
 - [June 5, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180605-Notes.md)
 - [July 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180703-Notes.md)
 - [August 7, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180807-Notes.md)
 - [September 4, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180904-Notes.md)
 - [October 2, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181002-Notes.md)
 - [November 13, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181113-Notes.md)
 - [June 4, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190604-Notes.md)
 - [July 2, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190702-Notes.md)
 - [August 6, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190806-Notes.md)
 - [September 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190903-Notes.md)
 - [December 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20191203-Notes.md)
 - [January 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200107-Notes.md)
 - [February 4, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200204-Notes.md)
 - [March 3, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200303-Notes.md)
 - [April 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200407-Notes.md)
 - [May 5, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200505-Notes.md)
 - [June 2, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200602-Notes.md)
 - [July 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200707-Notes.md)
 - [August 4, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200804-Notes.md)
 - [September 1, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200901-Notes.md)
 - [October 6, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20201006-Notes.md)
 - [January 12, 2021](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20210112-Notes.md)


### Call logistics

 - Calls normally take place on the first Tuesday of every month at 3 PM CET / CEST.
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - We use Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/826409840 (password is sent to the mailing list in monthly reminders)
 - You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code: 826 409 840 - see bottom of this document for telephone numbers
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.

### Attending

- 

### Apologies
- 
 
### Actions

Standing:
 * ACTION: Someone to send out reminders of these calls & someone to take notes during these calls - rotating between Dan, Neil, Martin
 * ACTION: All to open issues in GitHub to disseminate things they're working on

New:
 * ACTION: Dan to check with Alice about what the next steps/goals of the Repostories Task Force are - done, see below

## Agenda and Notes
  
### Updates from Task Forces

#### Journals Task Force (Dan/Shelley)
- [Notes from last call](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-8uFuCLBG8fw6RlJ6imkEsue4kWBkBMKMUOY59s4R0g/edit)
- Task force has two threads: publicity and practices, and publisher workflow
- Publicity and Practices:
   - [revised version of journal guidance](https://doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.26932.2) published
	   - [Scholarly Kitchen blog post](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2021/01/21/guest-post-citing-software-in-scholarly-publishing-to-improve-reproducibility-reuse-and-credit/) published - second hand info that it's been discussed by other publishers as well, e.g. ACM
	   - [F1000R blog/PR](https://blog.f1000.com/2021/01/26/guidance-on-software-citation-created-by-the-community-for-the-community/) posted
     - Aim is to get people to sign up to implementing the practices
- Publisher Workflow:
	 - Taking forward data citation and software citation together with publishers as the issues are similar
	 - High level document for production staff to get common approachers to how deal with citations
	 - Aiming to disseminate this at the NISO meeting
	 - Align with CrossRef schema update
- Publishers focus on DOIs - how might we get better support for other PIDs? Trying to make sure that others don't get obliterated.
   - SWH working with IPOL to better embed SWHIDs: [an example](https://doi.org/10.5201/ipol.2020.300)
   - Question raised based on this example about whether an indexer would understand that software was an element as part of this metadata
   - Suggests need for a task force / discussion / workshop on indexing (see later notes)

#### Repositories Task Force (Alice)
- Report from the Task Force published: [Nine Best Practices for Research Software Registries and Repositories: A Concise Guide](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.13117)
- Next step is implementation by repositories and registries and evaluating whether this document changes practice
- ACTION: Dan to check with Alice about what the next steps/goals of the Repositories Task Force are
  - post-call update: Alice, Mike, and Tom (leads of the workshop) have a few things to tie up from the workshop (workshop report, some software), and then will form a larger semi-formal group so we can collaborate where we can and share ideas for better managing/improving our resources. Mike Hucka has set up a [GitHub repo](https://github.com/SciCodes) for this effort, and weâ€™ll also likely repurpose scicodes.net for it. 


#### CodeMeta task force (Martin/Morane)
- [Notes from last call](https://hackmd.io/@CodeMetaTaskForce/SyElZsD3w/edit)
- Next call will be debating some of the different properties
- CodeMeta now at version 2.0 - looking to get modifications into version 3.0
- Some of the Google team who support schema.org have reached out around Software Citation
   
### Plans for WG in 2021
- General publicity/community building?
- Broad discussion on what the next steps for the SCI-WG are
   - Feeling is that there are still specific goals to be accomplished e.g. in the Journals Task Force
   - A possibility is to use the SCI-WG as a "steering group" to help identify things we should be helping coordinate which are not related to the current task forces, e.g. FAIR4RS, software metrics, approaches to identifying software papers
   - Rather than having guest presentation at the monthly calls, there may be some areas where we want more regular engagement to build a longer, larger community
   - This might mean we should consider if the group needs to rescope slightly
   - New FORCE11 Board has been elected - co-chairs could talk with the board to see if they're happy with the current governance, scope and activities

- A specific suggestion was raised around indexing, including:
   - How indexers identify, ingest and use software references and metadata
   - How identifiers for specific software might be better federated or linked between different discipline specific representations / identifier implementations. 
      - An example would be how a generic piece of software like Pandas was represented. Wikidata might be a technical approach to solving this, but is this the right time to start addressing this issue?
      - In the libraries community a similar problem exists for federating library catalogues - there is the concept of "authority control" and an example is the OCLC.
      - We need to do some scoping about what the right scope, goals and makeup of an indexing task force (who are the right players?), and understand if an identifier linking / federating task force is at the right point in time to setup.


### AOB
- IMLS-funded workshop
  - An opportunity to talk in-person and spend in-depth time on some of the issues mentioned on the call. 
  - Postponed to Fall 2021. Brainstormed some hybrid workshop ideas / people to invite. Further work needed to get an idea of additional communities / meetings we should be reaching out to.
  - Goal to develop an action plan - needs a survey of issues and identifying roadblocks and where actions are needed, particularly from repositories and archives. 
- [BoKSS2021](https://bokss.github.io/bokss2021/) abstract has been submitted, led by Stephan Druskat
- [LIBER2021](https://libereurope.eu/article/liber-2021-online-call-for-papers/) abstract is in preparation, led by Neil Chue Hong

___
 
### Call Logistics

- Possible future topics / People to invite on calls
   - Indexing
   - CHAOSS - how does citation fit in with other metrics? Matt Germonprez or Sean Goggins
   - New CFF schema
   - Measuring uptake (get a speaker who has experience of doing something similar?)
     - maybe do this a couple of times - soon and in a while
     - could we learn from someone working in data citation?
     - Martin to talk about Make Data Count Sloan project starting in August

- Chair Rota (also responsibility for sending reminders and inviting speakers):
   - Mar 2, 2021: Martin?
   - Apr 6, 2021: Neil?
   - May 4, 2021: Dan?
   
- Proposed structure of calls
   - Invited speaker on related topic (30 mins)
   - Updates from task forces (15 mins)
   - AOB (10 mins)

## Zoom Instructions

Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG
 - When    Monthly from 15:00 to 16:00 on the first Tuesday Berlin
 - Where   https://zoom.us/j/826409840

Please join this meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone: https://zoom.us/j/826409840

You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code / Meeting ID: 826 409 840

Join by telephone: 
 - Australia: +61 (0) 2 8015 2088
 - Canada: +1 647 558 0588
 - France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188
 - Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188
 - UK: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088
 - USA: +1 408 740 3766 or +1 646 876 9923 or +1 669 900 6833
 - other dialin numbers: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
 
 Test whether you can connect to a Zoom meeting: https://zoom.us/test
